# Customer-Lifetime-Value-Prediction.

## Introduction

It is in the best interest of a company to know what makes a customer more valuable and how not to lose these valuable customers. Henceforth, companies use ‘Customer Lifetime Value’. The Customer Lifetime Value (‘CLV’) is an estimate of how valuable a customer is to a company. In other words, the higher the customer's lifetime value, the more business they provide the company in their lifetime. It is necessary to identify the key features that contribute to the ‘CLV’ and understand how these key features affect ‘CLV’ , to maximize profit for a company.

We use the ‘IBM Watson Marketing Customer Value Data’ to analyse factors that may help us to understand CLV better. This dataset is a vehicle insurance data, consisting of 9134 rows collected in 5 states of the USA [Arizona, California, Nevada, Oregon, Washington] throughout the months of January and February in the year 2011.

In this report we’ll first see the effects of different variables on CLV and we’ll compare multiple models to predict CLV and propose a final model to predict CLV.

## Dataset Description

In the dataset there are 9134 observations and 24 variables. The dependent variable is  Customer.Lifetime.Value. The independent variables are:

Customer (Unique ID assigned to customers).

State (State to which customers belong).

Arizona, Nevada, Oregon, California, Washington
Customer Lifetime Value (Net profit generated by customers for the firm).

Response(Positive or negative response with regards to purchase of policy plans).

No, Yes
Coverage (Policy coverage chosen by the customers).

Basic, Extended, Premium
Education (Education received by the customers).

Bachelor, College, Doctor, HighSchool or Below, Master
Effective To Date (Maturity date of insurance policy plan).

EmploymentStatus (Customers’ current employment status).

Employed, Unemployed, Disabled, Retired, Medical Leave
Gender (Gender of customers).

F(Female), M(Male)
Income (Income level of cusomers).

Location Code (Type of residential area of cusomers).

Rural, Suburban, Urban
Marital Status (Relationship status).

Divorced, Married, Single
Monthly Premium Auto (Monthly premium paid for the policy).

Months Since Last Claim (Number of months that passed since the last claim made by the customer).

Months Since Policy Inception (Number of months since the activation of policy plan).

Number of Open Complaints (Number of unsolved complaints made by the customer).

Number of Policies (Total number of policies purchased).

Policy Type (Type of policy under the main categories).

Corporate Auto, Personel Auto, Special Auto
Policy (Category of policy plan adopted by the customer).

personal L1, personel L2, personel L3, corporate L1, corporate L2, corporate L3, special L1, special L2, special L3
Renew Offer Type (Class of renewal offer accepted by the customer).

offer 1, offer 2, offer 3, offer 4
Sales Channel (Channel via sales with a particular customer occurred).

Agent, Branch, Call centre, Web
Total Claim Amount(Total amount that can be claimed by the customer on/before policy maturity).

Vehicle Class (Class to which the insured vehicle belongs).

Four-Door-Car, Luxury car, Luxury SUV, Sports Car, SUV, Two-Door-Car
Vehicle Size (Size of the customers’ insured vehicle).

Out of which 14 are categorical, 6 integers and 1 numerical.

Objective - Predict Customer Lifetime Value of a vehicle insurance company.

## Conclusions

##### From The EDA:

The ABC insurance company benefits from clients that are: employed, married, live in suburban areas with vehicles of four-door and Medsize.

The data was severely left sided askew denoting that majority of the clients represented in the data had low CLV and very few had high CLV. To reduce the effect of the outliers, the log value of the CLV was taken.

Clients who had used the sales channel through an agent have a considerably high CLV. Showing that agents have are better at selling car insurances.

Some cases where the number of complaints that were unresolved showed lower CLV.

##### From The Model:

As seen Above the model with the best performance was model 6.

The result suggests that the variables can explain about 69% of variability in our clv data.

And the train and test score had the least difference, with train of 0.6892 and test of 0.6203.

The features which played the main role in determining the CLV were, Coverage, Employment Status, Gender, Marital Status, Monthly Premium Auto, Months Since Last Claim, 

Number of Open Complaints, Number of Policies and Vehicle Class.

##### Additions that would have help analysis:

Details regarding the type of policies when they had taken multiple policies.

Details about the frequency of claims Made would have assisted in the understanding of the CLV.

As there were a considerable number of clients who have taken policies, that are unemployment (with income = 0). Details on the fact that these clients had taken policies on the name of their guardians (Young adults/new drivers) would add on as to their target audience better understanding the CLV amount.
